= ExactTarget - A Ruby interface to the ExactTarget API.

== Introduction

ExactTarget is an email marketing solution provider with an
http-based api for performing various tasks such as managing
mailing lists, managing subscribers, and queueing up email
jobs.  This gem is a pure ruby library for accessing that api.

== Resources

=== Installation

  gem install exact-target

=== Git Repository

http://github.com/ePublishing/exact_target

== Prerequisites

The ExactTarget gem depends on both Nokogiri and Builder. Both
should be installed automatically when them gem is installed
(if not already installed).

== Notes

Currently this is a partial implementation.  None of the
tracking functionality is yet implemented.

== Usage

=== Setup/Configuration

  require 'exact_target'

  ExactTarget.configure do |config|
    config.username = 'my_username'
    config.password = 'my_password'
  end

=== Account Information

  # Retrieve subscriber attributes
  ExactTarget.accountinfo_retrieve_attrbs

=== List Management

  # Retrieve all list ids
  ExactTarget.list_retrieve

  # Retrieve list id for given name
  ExactTarget.list_retrieve('Some List')

  # Retrieve list information by list id
  ExactTarget.list_retrieve(15123512)

  # Create new list
  ExactTarget.list_add("My Test List", :private)

  # Rename a list
  ExactTarget.list_edit(15123512, "My RENAMED Test List")

  # Import new or updated subscribers en mass from a comma-delimited
  # or tab-delimited file into an existing subscriber list.
  ExactTarget.list_import(15123512, 'sometestfile.txt', ['Email Address', 'Field 2', ...])
  ExactTarget.list_import([id_1, id2, ...], 'sometestfile.txt', ['Email Address', 'Field 2', ...])

  # Request an update on the status of an import.
  ExactTarget.list_importstatus(some_import_id)

  # Retrieve the profile and preference attributes for all subscribers
  # (or all subscribers with a certain status) on a specified list.
  ExactTarget.list_retrieve_sub(42, 'Active')

  # Delete a list and all subscribers who belong to the list.
  ExactTarget.list_delete(15123512)

  # Retrieve all groups in your account.
  ExactTarget.list_retrievegroups

  # Refresh the membership of an attribute-based (rule-based) group
  # to reflect any changes to your subscribers' attribute values.
  ExactTarget.list_refresh_group(3514)

  # Request an update on the status of a group refresh.
  ExactTarget.batch_inquire(8912)

=== Subscriber Management

  # Add a subscriber to a list.
  subscriber = ExactTarget::Subscriber.new.tap do |s|
    s.email_address = 'test.person@company.com'
    s.full_name     = 'George Wills'
  end
  ExactTarget.subscriber_add(1234, subscriber,
                             :status => :active,
                             :update => true,
                             :ChannelMemberID => 5678)

  # Update the attributes (including email address) and/or status of
  # an existing subscriber. Can be used to reactivate a subscriber
  # who was placed on the master unsubscribe list.
  subscriber = ExactTarget::Subscriber.new.tap do |s|
    s.email_address = 'new.email@company.com'
    s.full_name     = 'Frank Jones'
  end
  ExactTarget.subscriber_edit(63718, 'previous@email.com', subscriber,
                              :status => :unsub,
                              :reason => 'Some reason ...',
                              :ChannelMemberID => 5678)

  # Retrieve all profile and preference attribute data entered for a
  # subscriber on a specific list, or retrieve all attribute data for
  # a subscriber and all lists to which the subscriber belongs.
  ExactTarget.subscriber_retrieve(123456, 'someone@example.com')
  ExactTarget.subscriber_retrieve(123456789)

  # Delete a subscriber from your database, or remove a subscriber
  # from a specified list.
  ExactTarget.subscriber_delete(112233445566, 'bob@hotmail.com')
  ExactTarget.subscriber_delete(112233445566)

  # Place a subscriber's (or multiple subscribers') email address on
  # your Master Unsubscribe list so that the email address is never
  # added to any of your subscriber lists.
  ExactTarget.subscriber_masterunsub 'someone@email.com', 'someone.else@email.com', ...

=== Mailing Management

  # Retrieve all email IDs or filter by email name and/or date range.
  ExactTarget.email_retrieve
  ExactTarget.email_retrieve('Welcome to Fortune One!')
  ExactTarget.email_retrieve(:start_date => Date.parse('2008-09-15'),
                             :end_date => Date.parse('2008-10-15'))
  ExactTarget.email_retrieve('Welcome to Fortune One!',
                             :start_date => Date.parse('2008-09-15'),
                             :end_date => Date.parse('2008-10-15'))

  # Create an email from HTML that you send to the ExactTarget application via an API call.
  ExactTarget.email_add('Your email name', 'Your subject line', :body => 'Your HTML email body')
  ExactTarget.email_add('Your email name', 'Your subject line', :file => 'Filename')

  # Create the text version of an email, which will be displayed
  # to any subscriber whose email client does not support HTML email.
  ExactTarget.email_add_text(email_id, :body => 'Your text email body')
  ExactTarget.email_add_text(email_id, :file => 'Filename')

  # Retrieve the body of the HTML version of any email in your account.
  ExactTarget.email_retrieve_body(email_id)

=== Job Initiation

  # Kick off a mailing (test or live)
  ExactTarget.job_send(email_id,
                       [list_id_1, list_id_2, ...],
                       :suppress_ids => [list_id_3, ...],
                       :from_name => 'John Doe',
                       :from_email => 'jd@nowhere.com',
                       :additional => 'additional information for job',
                       :multipart_mime => true,
                       :track_links => false,
                       :send_date => '5/3/2011',
                       :send_time => '17:35',
                       :test_send => true)

---
Author::   David McCullars <mailto:dmccullars@ePublishing.com>
Copyright:: (C) 2011 ePublishing
Licence::  GPL[http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html]
